President Biden
is not alone
in expressing his frustration
over how Netanyahu is conducting
this war.
Many Israelis are also angry
and voicing their outrage,
holding nightly protests, demanding
not only that, the Netanyahu
government focus more on a deal
to bring home the remaining hostages,
but also many of them
calling for Israel's
longest serving prime minister in history
to resign.
My next guest
says, quote, Benjamin
Netanyahu is Israel's
worst prime minister ever
and that Netanyahu's obsession
with his own destiny
as Israel's protector
has caused his country grievous damage.
And Angela Pfeifer joins us
now from his ranch.
Thank you so much for joining us.
In your article,
you write that
Prime Minister
Netanyahu, had
he accepted defeat in 2021, perhaps today
he would have been remembered
as one of Israel's
most successful prime ministers.
Instead, you write, quote,
He has brought far right extremists
into the mainstream of government
and made himself and the country
beholden to them.
His corruption is flamboyant
and he has made terrible
security decisions
that brought existential danger
to the country
he pledged to lead and protect.
Above all,
his selfishness is without parallel.
He has put his own interests
ahead of Israel's at every turn, unquote.
Do you think that Netanyahu is
dragging this war on out
longer than it needs to be
for his own political survival?
I think that
it's very clear
by now that the way the war is going,
which on one side
it's now is talking about a total victory
and the need to press on
to do the operation in
the way that he's conditioning
a hostage agreement
or release agreement for it,
for a temporary ceasefire
with some kind of bigger military push.
Well, at the same time,
we're seeing on the ground
that the military isn't carrying out
that push and is scaling down
with Israeli forces.
It looks like a recipe
for a much longer war.
And the main reason for that happening
is that it's in the out
feels that as long as this war
is as long as this, we can say that
the war
it it'll be much more difficult
for his political opponents
to demand an early election
which will probably remove him.
So it's just a factual matter
that Netanyahu's survival as prime
minister depends on some anti-Arab
zealots in his cabinet,
Ben-Gvir and Smotrich.
Primarily,
he needs their support to stay in power.
If he alienates them,
they can leave
and he and there will be a new election.
He'll he'll not have support
to be prime minister.
How much do you think that's the reason
that not enough
humanitarian aid is getting into Gaza?
I don't think that's the main reason.
I think the reason that not enough
humanitarian aid got into
Gaza is a combination of reasons,
which partly it's
the trauma that Israelis
were feeling in the aftermath
of the of October seven.
Partly, it's
the way that the Israeli military
was focused
on them,
on the military campaign,
and didn't
think that the humanitarian side of
it was something that they,
as the army needed,
needed to to prioritize.
And yes,
the third element,
I think, is this political
paralysis at the heart
of Netanyahu's cabinet.
He can't make any major decision
because he's scared of
angering either the the far right
wing of his government, without whom
he doesn't have a majority
or the pragmatic wing.
And, of course, the Biden administration.
That leads to indecision.
And what we're seeing
now is that
there needed to be some kind of proactive
take on the humanitarian front
and that that has been absent
from Israel's decision making.
And that
and Netanyahu
is the man responsible for that.
So President
Biden had a tough conversation
with Netanyahu
in which he said
it was going to be tough
for the United States
to continue to support Israel
if Gaza keeps going the way it is.
The campaign. What do you think
Netanyahu is going to do?
Our friend Barak Ravid
is reporting that
Biden said out, out and out.
If he doesn't change it, it's
going to be tough to support you.
Well, that's also what
the White House readout said.
And we saw already
what Netanyahu did
immediately after his very tough
phone call with it,
with the president, that he rushed
to the Israeli cabinet
and immediately passed a decision
to open up the main routes through Israel
for supplies to Gaza.
This is something that for six months
the Israeli government
hasn't done is in the out,
did this literally within minutes
of speaking to Biden.
So we can see that this call
had a major effect on the.
But it's interesting that Netanyahu
rushed to vote at the beginning
of the cabinet meeting now.
Votes usually take place
after a debate is is held.
In this case.
The Senate was so scared
of one of his far
right ministers written by Ben-Gvir
who had been delayed and wasn't yet
at the cabinet meeting
that he rushed to have the vote
before Benjamin came.
So on the one hand, he could,
he hopes, appease Biden
by making those decisions
and the other hand avoid a confrontation
with one of his partners.
Fascinating.
Anshel Pfeffer, thank you so much.
Come back.